but let's be real most of these essays
you're gonna write you're gonna read
about them into the research for a
couple of days and then you're you're
never gonna think about it again and I
got I got some hate mail sometimes
genuinely hateful sometimes playful
making fun of me for being the guy with
a stack of books on camera but for all
those research assignments again it's
not necessarily the amount of time you
do the writing from the day of the
assignment I would get the books I would
have the books and I would live with the
books until the assignment was done but
the ultimate reason to have that lead
time to not do it that me two weeks is
not enough to do it on the day they hand
you the assignment is so that you can
drop the course so when I was in college
most people that I knew wrote their
essays in an overnight like mad session
so right before the due date so you
recently were talking about how you got
good grades and university courses and
you said that on the first day when you
were given the syllabus you would go to
the library look at the bugs
start thinking about how you would
finish the assignments right and that is
basically the ideal way that you should
approach a course that you should
approach any assignment you should think
about it at the beginning of the term
and you know throughout the term be
thinking about how you're gonna
formulate a research paper or an essay
of some kind you seemed really surprised
when I said that I mean what not true
but that's how you seem you seem
surprised might I say yeah the same day
the teacher handed me the piece of paper
with the assignment I would go to the
library that day normally immediately
after class when I got the piece of
paper yeah and I would start physically
stacking up the books to write the
assignment it's like what the
professor's recommend like they're like
you should start thinking about this now
it's it's not rocket science but in
terms of a nobody right well right I was
being like that they thought I was being
really proactive because like like two
weeks beforehand I'd be like okay I need
to actually make a first draft right and
I know like you tend to write things and
you know you go with one of the first
drafts three I can I can do all the
writing in one night but writing it
should be the final stage of the process
right right um for me it's more of like
I have to write a lot of like I have to
write a first draft and then do edits
over and over and over again for me to
actually feel comfortable with it like
one of my professors early on told me
that the secret to good writing is
rewriting and for me that works I know
it's not the case for everybody and like
you're just you're just really
well-spoken and like you're really like
well you know when you write it comes
across really well well in some ways you
know the essay that brought us together
so it's a very long essay about this war
that took place or civil war in 1920
Massacre of a village vote so it's an
interesting historical political event
but that essay you know I did basically
all the writing for that in one night
yeah I mean if I really got detailed
there's one section of it that was
written on a separate night to a
remarkable extent that was but writing
is the final phase of the process right
it's not like the reading was done in
one night it's not that the research was
done one
right right yeah to me that's really
impressive it said like you just have
you have a really good memory so like
you after you read something it's it's
easy for you to not only summarize but
like form a coherent and cohesive
opinion that's interesting you know well
okay like at least for me like it's it's
it's biased okay she's in love with me
no no you make a totally good point but
like my point in this video is not to
talk about like the unique advantages I
may haven't write a good essay it's it's
basically to talk about the elements of
my approach that other people can do too
yeah I'm just saying but I mean like not
everyone is gonna have that kind of
memory not everyone's gonna have that
kind of level of writing ability where
you sit down and do it in one night but
when you talk about the first thing
these significance of going to get the
books on the same night you're handed
the assignment the same day you get the
assignment from the professor so you
mentioned your friends regarded you as
more studious and they were because you
would give it two weeks yeah
when you really think about it two weeks
is not enough two weeks right nothing I
know I know
two weeks is not enough why point one
most universities in most of the world
right now they will not have the books
you need at the library on paper they
will have to order them from other
libraries on most topics now admittedly
if you are doing a first year essay on
Shakespeare probably there are enough
books literary analysis want something
really mainstream something really
normal for the discipline but even when
I did some pretty pretty mainstream
stuff like I did I did it at NSA on
migration policy immigration policy in
Japan I thought oh this is a meeting of
Japan's a mainstream country this isn't
like researching Cambodia or Laos or
something this is an ancient history
this is current politics the last 50
years I should be able to get a lot of
books No so if you're not way out in
advance of the topic your ability to
order books in from other libraries you
you really can't do it two weeks is not
enough all right if you're ordering
interlibrary loan and as I say on almost
all topics almost all universities that
is what you're relying on right that's
thing one thing too is you're giving
yourself enough time to make mistakes
and to come up with a new topic or to
toe to redefine and redirect your topic
so you know you might have had some
assumptions like okay let's stick with
that example it's a boring example
that's still like okay I was gonna do an
essay on immigration policy in Japan and
I assumed I'd be able to find articles
that dealt with the relationship between
immigration and unemployment the
unemployment rate and immigration policy
and in fact I can't find anything about
that or the relationship between to
isn't what I expected it to be so
instead I'm gonna do immigration and
crime you know change like that
no again it may sound like a small
change but both in terms of the digital
resources you need to use and in terms
of books on paper now you need new books
you may need to order them from other
libraries you may need to do to do new
work that way right uh something people
used to make fun of me for I think you
remember this from the old days my
channel I used to often have a stack of
books on camera there was just a lot of
books in the room with me and I got I
got some hate mail sometimes genuinely
hateful sometimes playful making fun of
me for being the guy with the stack of
books on camera but for all those
research assignments again it's not
necessarily the amount of time you do
the writing from the day of the
assignment I would get the books I would
have the books and I would live with the
books until this time it was done right
so she mentioned again this is what I
want to Jimmy you said I have a really
good memory
I was not memorizing the book this stuff
it's a the resources I was quoting to to
write these papers right um
partly just cuz my level of interest was
in high enough like let's be real most
of these essays you're gonna write
you're gonna read about them and do the
research for a couple of days and then
you're you're never gonna think about it
again I mean you just could stick with
the same example yeah I did learn I
learned something I learned many things
from that research assignment on
Japanese migration Japanese immigration
policy bites I'm not I don't regret gee
I wish I'd worked harder I was I wish
I'd committed that stuff the members
like not at all
um I would very simply when going
through the books use bookmarks you know
put in bookmarks I can find the page I
would take handwritten notes also for
where I was gonna find things in the
books and then it would physically have
the copies of the books I did
that's mine you must my essays were
about literature so I would just make a
note you know this is this is one you
know one portion of the book that I
would like to like write an essay about
so I would I would make notes with that
like on page write write write he deals
with this topic or whatever right yeah
so then when I was doing the writing for
me also I'm just saying keys think I
have a perfect memory of photographic
memory not for this kind of thing I
would more oh yeah right that guy says
something about unemployment or that guy
says something about crime let's go and
get that and then you know put it in the
essay sure so I mean I'm a regular human
being I don't you know I don't have any
kind of great advantage on on that level
but the lead time there of living with
the books and having the books on your
on your desk
I think that's that's crucial mmm and
you have to be lost to yourself but how
much or how little reading you're gonna
do to having books on paper is a huge
advantage over having articles in a PDF
format or articles download from the
internet if you have the luxury printing
those out on paper for exactly this
reason
your ability to rifle through them and
mark them and everything I do think the
learning process is better on paper but
yes I also do sometimes just used purely
purely digital editions and make notes
based on them think you rely more on on
handwritten notes when you do but I mean
the ultimate reason to have that lead
time to not do it they'll be two weeks
is not enough to do it on the day they
hand you the assignment is so that you
can drop the course if for any reason
you know this is an assignment and you
realize you have nothing to say you
realize you can't write an a-plus essay
you realize you can't succeed you
realize the professor is hostile to you
because I've dealt with that a bunch of
times a lot of my courses are about
politics and you realize this professor
politically really disagrees with what
I'm about or disagrees with my approach
they have a bias or an interest opposite
to mine or what have you or it may be
completely personal I've heard about
that in literature courses too you know
this this professor just plain hates me
for whatever reason a lot of them all of
those are compelling reasons to drop a
course because if you have those kinds
of factors against you you can do ten
times as much work and you're still
gonna get a B+ or a C+ or an a-minus
when you when you deserve the grade in
the nineties
when you're doing as much work as to get
a grade in the 90s so whenever you're in
a scenario or you can't win don't win
drop the course preferably you want to
drop it before that you have to pay for
the course because there's normally a
brief pretend but again you would have
to make that decision up front right nor
most universities maybe you have two
weeks maybe you have four weeks at the
beginning where you can make this is you
to drop the course we could make the
decision to enroll in another course
so that's that's crucial you get the
essay assignment you go to the library
you get the book so you find out what
books you can and can't get and that's
gonna be linked to whether or not you
you you you stay in the course okay can
you give an example like what I'm
thinking about like some courses that it
really didn't like like there was one
right yeah I never read a Virginia Woolf
book but I was like I've heard that I
should read Virginia Woolf great many
great works of literature so I took I
took a class that was exclusively
Virginia Woolf books and I wish I hadn't
it was really just terrible who was
children because the professor or the
like like I had heard many good things
not the professor to like like that he
was really charismatic that liked his
lectures were interesting and like I say
topics were you know also you know
engaging and yeah so um but yeah so I'm
just trying to think like you know I
when I first like started I looked at
the syllabus and I was like okay you
know I bought the books like very soon
after that but what was you just what
was it actually with the content with
the manuals yeah okay I mean we'll keep
in mind guys education is not
entertainment and that's also look I
mean there were two things I wanna
highlight here one why do we have this
divide between education culture and
world culture world culture if you're at
work if you're it's your job and your
boss hands you an assignment when do you
work on the assignment the minute he
hands you the assignment you started
that day but at university your prof.
hands you an assignment when do you work
on it three months later that makes no
sense the same way this is your job
you're a professional student whatever
you want to say that's that's what you
do when they hand you the assignment you
should
that that division but there's also the
division between education culture
culture and entertainment culture
anything in a lot of ways that's looking
at of course the wrong way to say oh I
hear this is entertaining the the
professor is entertaining or the reading
is entertaining as opposed to looking at
one what you're gonna learn from it like
you know what is the educational value
for you and then to the mode of
evaluation so I give you a ton of
example of courses of drops where III it
was a no-win situation for me but one
that might surprise you is actually
linguistics so I remember a linguistics
class I enrolled in and if you read the
description of it you'd think wow this
is exactly what aisel would like this
exactly what this guy would want to take
because I have a lot of interest in
language research including indigenous
peoples languages minority language is
language education there's a lot of
things about language than the rest of
me
but there were many reasons why I
dropped this course but it included the
method of evaluation so this is of
course that wasn't based on writing an
essay
it was based on you would go home and
you would log into a computer and do a
multiple-choice test and little
assignments and so on and just I sat
there and read the syllabus and I looked
at the you know I looked at the the mode
of evaluation and always remember there
was a girl sitting next to me in class
and she had you know some kind of
learning disability I don't know she was
probably something like dyslexic or
something and she was so delighted she
sat there and said out loud in her chair
like she said this is grade it doesn't
require any writing at all ever because
I was sitting at the same time looking
at the syllabus thinking I'm dropping
this course as soon as I could get to a
computer term you know I really liked
writing essays so yeah that would be
right a shitty course you know but look
but look some people who's being cynical
here am I being cynical I'm being
sincere because I'm sincerely dressed
and learning I'm sincerely written
education but I'm also interested in the
process and how I'm going to be
evaluated whether whether or not I can
win so one of those that was it's not
like that I took a course in I guess
you'd say philosophy of education or
methods of Education right again if you
know me or you watch my training thing
if you read the description scores think
wow this is the kind of course aisel
want to take that this guy would want to
take and the first day of class I've
never
this happened in a real university class
so I sit down it's a normal University
lecture hall with the desks in a row and
the professor comes in and says okay
push all the desks to the side and sit
on the floor in circles sit your ass on
the floor there's no carpet there's no
right it's not that kind of room you'd
sit your pass through 30 Florida circle
and already I'm thinking hmm
maybe this time they had it should they
had a sit like little you know pre
preschoolers or whatever sit in little
circles of five people and you know
there were a whole bunch of red flags
for me the type of assignment that we're
supposed to come in these participatory
assignments and so on and this is you
know I can understand why they think
that's cool but also the the first
question she gave us were supposed to
discuss it in a group and then give her
answer was to evaluate a certain method
of Education a certain style of
participation and how effective is it at
x y&z now it was very obvious the
teacher just won here ten out of ten
this method of education is great for
this great for that and great for
prepping for exams it was three
different categories and terrorism
arisen and I gave my honest answer I
said no I think it's about a five out of
ten for prepping for the naps I don't
think this is an excellent way to
prepare for exams and the teacher was
was fuming
she was livid she was angry at me and I
think every other student of class was
just like yes teacher ten out of ten
this is the best method for preparing
for exam
nobody else was questioned yet but it's
like you know okay I can't I can't have
an opinion that much in this class I'm
expected in terms of the mode of
participation evaluation everything else
said Nate I mean these are very very
different that's why I mention them from
the case I think the one you already
know about was the class on on the
politics of immigration where the
teacher was up basically on that issue
was a left-wing extremist
she believed all illegal immigrants
should be welcomed into the country
unlimited illegal immigration should be
legal in effect you know she took a
position I pointed out to her in class I
said you know if you do a poll you
realize 99% of Canadians disagree with
you look we have polling data on these
questions there's political science
right but we're you know her political
position was biased against I mean I
should have dropped that course I didn't
I didn't drop that course and I'll
always read it I should
it was a ton of work there's a ton of
work for a hostile problem I guess
like that's content-based no I like the
fact that you've taken classes that are
in political science and it's I can
imagine it's tough to be somebody with
an opposing view yes
when the professor is teaching something
explicitly political I did not take any
political science classes and very few
courses that even the content would be
controversial to talk about like you're
not gonna have a lot of controversy in
the class even if you disagree with the
professor about the meaning of a passage
from Virginia Woolf you know one of her
books like yeah like really that's not
gonna ever like cause like I don't know
like I can imagine that one professor
just wouldn't like a certain member of
the class but like yep you know I just
don't I have not had that experience so
like I would have never dropped a class
just because of the political stances of
a professor or because of you know them
not liking me no I was also you know not
as I'm sure you're you're very you're
not a spoken-- person so like in class
I'm sure you write well these classes
okay but look so that's another point I
was saying from day one take up the
books if you're talking about a class
that is you know most seminar class
class there's a role for the student
speaking some are somewhere just a
straight theater you also want to start
speaking in class right at the beginning
why so that you can make the decision
about whether or not you're gonna drop
the class and also so you know what you
need to know to get started on the
research right away I'm saying research
as opposed to writing the essay I I
think it doesn't matter if you leave the
writing until the last minute like in a
sense so what would you idealize more
there were courses where I wrote it
three months before the deadline where I
got the books I did the writing and the
essay was done three months was I've
done that but you can also get the books
do the research and then do the writing
at the last minute and you'll be relaxed
it won't even be a rush if you look oh
yeah I've done all the reading I've done
all the research of the assignment over
the last three months so I'm a hundred
percent prepared now I can just relax
and write it up know I'm writing up
something I already know
that I'm already convergent in you
probably look great right but I've done
both I mean I've done all these but the
point is getting the books during the
research meeting but if you think about
speaking in class that's also something
what did you write at the beginning in a
sense that's your opportunity to test
the professor instead of vice versa not
the professor of testing you what is
this what is this course about yeah so
look I don't think anyone would say that
succeeding in university is easy it's
not mostly because nobody explains to
you the rules of the game that you're
playing you're expected to come in and
figure them out for yourself however not
failing you know not doing badly that's
really a separate you know limiting your
risk making strategic decisions about
what you study and how you study it what
kind of research you're gonna do what
course you're gonna say what you're not
gonna take what compromises you're gonna
make right what if you find a course
that on the surface is not interesting
you at all but it's good for your degree
and you can get a good grade in it
there's a sec separate art of making
that interesting for yourself because
most of these courses you get to do the
essay on whatever you want so you may
think oh this is a boring class in terms
of what's in the syllabus or what are
the assigned readings but then within
that topic you can come up with you know
a research question that's interesting
to you that motivates you that makes it
more educational rewarding for you so
that's on you you know that creative
aspect I I felt was kind of unstated yes
just said sure okay but really just like
agreeing with you you know like I could
have made that class interesting if I
would have focused on the historical and
political things that were happening but
you time of junior Wolfe was writing but
I knew nothing about it in the class
didn't talk about it at all so let's
let's say let's say writes totally not
interesting let's say I was forced to
take a literature class like this that I
didn't want to take it didn't didn't
happen over this might work but if I had
to do an English literature class I'm
really not that interesting literature
but I could be in a class like that and
I go up the professor and say hey this
class about Virginia Woolf when I'm
really interested in is Asian politics
so here's here's my proposal how do you
how do a pan respond to Virginia
well I'm gonna look at the criticism of
you know you know appreciative reception
reception of Virginia Woolf in Japan if
it was Shakespeare and it's like look I
don't really want to sink my time and
energy into Shakespeare what about the
history of Shakespeare being adapted and
performed in communist China you know
how was Hamlet performed in Beijing in
terms of translation and politics and
culture now I've got something probably
the professor's gonna be delighted to
it's really oh wow that's that's
different from the other 999 essays I
have one on hand for the Shakespeare
they'll probably accept the the proposal
and I've created something that
positively motivates me and has
educational value for me in terms of in
terms of my interest but nobody teaches
you this sorry in general unless your
parent is me your parents don't teach
you this high school doesn't prepare you
for this how to make reading productive
how to make independent research
rewarding and even as obvious as it is
how to block out your time now to get
this stuff done yeah so look just in
this video by saying cuz some people
don't notice about me in some ways my
life has been unbelievably horrible and
tragic that be a topic for another video
but one of the ways which my life has
been wonderful is that for me learning
never ended my first University was back
when I was a normal teenage age back in
1997 and then I've again whether it's a
tragedy or a triumph I've come back to
university again and again I didn't run
but I completed that degree but I've
repeatedly enrolled in and started new
degrees after that so I've gotten to
rehearse this experience again and again
and yeah the last time around I mean
this time I did get extremely high
grades except when I was cornered into
classes where I just couldn't win I
think that is a topic for another video
ok guys lots of ways to get in touch
with me I'm on Twitter I'm on patreon I
have an email you can figure it out if
you want to talk to me more about
education university hit me up
[Music]
a bonus yen